## 4 December 2018
#### Present: Jake, Alex, Martin
#### Standups
* Jake
    * Nothing to report since Dublin
* Martin
    * Nothing to report since Dublin
* Alex

#### Agenda
* Alex: high-level overview of "simulation" plan
* Try to convert this into actionable items

#### Notes

##### Simulation Plan Overview

[Moved here](https://github.com/wortels/design/issues/7)

The goal is to have some figures on the size and complexity of transaction creation and processing.

The MVP to do this consists of (in Rust):
- a "state API"
    - has a way to access an address (contract)
    - has a way to access/modify storage of the current account
- a basic API for contracts (can call other contracts, can read and write storage)

Two processes:
1) Transaction creation

This is kind of like how "estimateGas" works - it runs the transaction with all the starting state present. It will need to keep track of what storage is accessed (read) and what is changed (written). Then it will need to bundle all this up into a transcation blob (containing data and merkle proofs)

2) Transaction processing

This receives the transaction blob and has no underlying state (apart from the merkle roots). Will try to process the transaction. (Should also run this against invalid transaction blob, e.g. something lacking data, proofs or has invalid proofs.)

Possible variations on the "state API":
- has storage keys and values of fixed size (256-bit, like ethereum)
- has storage keys of fixed size, but values of unlimited size
- has both storage keys and values of unlimited size

There should be a couple of different approaches implemented as trees. Possibly we could start with Ethereum's merkle-patricia tree as that would allow for a good comparision of speed and size (would we wish to write a paper).

Technically the simulation is written in Rust and has the following elements:
- "state API" as a trait
- wasmi for wasm execution
- multiple implementations of the "State API"
- at least 2 different contract examples implemented

```rust
trait State {
  fn messageAccount(address, msg);
  fn writeStorage(key, value);
  fn readStorage(key) -> value;
}
```

##### Other
* Martin visiting Stanford to talk VCs (vector commitments) in Mid-January
* Alex and Jake interested, probably best to go around the same time as Eth1x and other events in cali

##### Takeaways
* Alex + Jake working on ethereum trie wrapper using parity's trie impl
* Martin busy until later this week, planning to work on JS prototype in parallel and do more research on vector commitments
* Next meeting: Dec. 12, Alex maybe unavailable until next Sunday
